FILM 2
If I lose the battle with the demons
before I die,
help us all.
HOT COCOA - SMOOTHIES
-Sasha, what, are you following me?
-No.
-I’m just here a lot.
-And I’m not.
Listen, I wanted to tell you then--
Sasha, I’m begging you-- don’t. All right?
-You don’t even know yet!
-I can see it in your eyes.
You love me. Did I guess it?
So, if it’s as I suspect,
you’d really like to fuck me.
Auntie, you know a little bit about life.
What, am I wrong?
-That isn’t what I wanted to say.
-What is it?
Because I graduated with honors,
they invited me to work as an assistant
in the prosecutor’s office.
I turned it down.
I’m going for investigator.
-Sash…
-What?
Is trampling through the mud
your kind of a hunt?
That’s not you. You’re too…
What? Nice, right?
Esenya Andreyevna?
Meglin sent me. Are you ready to go?
And how do you--
I’m going.
Do you feel it?
I love you.
He talked like that, you know…
Not like deaf people talk.
And then it turned out
he actually was deaf.
And what did he say?
Sit down.
He asked me which I liked more--
coffee or tea.
I said, “It depends on what kind.”
He said, “The tea is black.
The coffee is black too.”
Go ahead, study.
He offered me a cheese sandwich.
I asked, “Is the cheese black too?”
He said, “No, it’s yellow.”
CRIMINAL CASE - 1970
CRIMINAL CASE - 1957
Are you going to tell me
if we’ll see him today, or ever?
I’m getting bored.
-Is your hearing aid broken?
-Yes!
You don’t have to drive me.
I’m going for a walk.
I’m sick of this room
and your cheese sandwiches.
And I’m also sick of Meglin--
Let’s go.
Stop, stop.
I need to use the bathroom.
Wait in the car.
I don’t lock it. Are you drunk?
What?
Nothing. Everything is fine.
Can I ask you something?
How did you figure out
who the guy was that killed my friend?
The glasses. What do you mean “the glasses?”
His glasses are expensive.
But his face isn’t.
So, deduction?
Everyone around him
was screaming in horror.
And he was watching quietly.
He couldn’t look away.
He wasn’t horrified. He liked it.
And what’s your analysis?
It’s all in the eyes.
His wife left him.
He loved her as he should have,
but she left. Why?
Because she’s beautiful.
And beauty is costly.
She came in and said, “Sorry darling.
I’ve fallen in love with someone else,
my dear.”
In tears, he says,
“How could you fall in love? The bastard!”
“Volod, listen.
Let’s go our separate ways peacefully.
That’s it. Good-bye. I’m leaving.”
He was stressed and couldn’t sleep.
That night, he came up with the idea.
In the morning, he drew the designs.
He made earrings.
There was poison in the crystals.
He put the earrings on her,
and, within a day, she died.
He showed up and gave her the gift--
a reminder.
And that’s it. No more wife.
But he still couldn’t sleep.
Because his head was buzzing. How can
you sleep when your head is buzzing?
Who are you talking to?
Then this suave guy shows up and says,
“My, what a master you are.”
Frightened, he says, “How do you know?”
“I know, I know.
I have a nose for talent like yours.
Can you make a necklace?
But that’s not enough.
You have to give it to her
in a way that she’ll accept it.
And not the first one you meet,
the one that deserves it like your ex.
A female who can be bought.”
“And how will I know
which one deserves it?”
“I’ll tell you.
And I’ll write out the words
that will convince her to accept.
I’ll write them, and you’ll memorize them,
repeating them word for word.
Because you’re like a child--
not fully developed, right?”
God knows what you’ll think of me,
but, oh, well.
“You were born in Kaluga.
Your dad is a drunkard.
But no worries. You’ll rehearse. You’ll
grow up a bit at the same time, right?
The fact that you have tape and screws
holding your glasses together--
no big deal.
I’ll buy you new ones. And a new suit too.
Flawless. I’ve thought everything out.
Excellent. Excellent.”
How can anyone throw away
something so beautiful?
Please.
So it turns out there were two of them?
The one they caught only made the device.
There was a second one
who told him when to present it
and under what circumstances.
An accomplice.
A finger puppet and a finger--
these are accomplices?
No.
You didn’t catch him?
And how could we?
He did everything right--
with someone else’s hands, not his own.
“You won’t catch me.”
Good job. Good job.
Now about the Lipetsk murderer.
Over two years, he killed nine girls
from the ages of 14 to 20.
He killed them all with a cord.
He acted boldly,
sometimes in front of witnesses.
TRAIN STATION
LIPETSK
I love train stations. Don’t you?
Not me.
You need to.
ATTENTION! WANTED
Rodion Viktorovich? Meglin? Egorov.
Egorov? You’re using your walkie-talkie
as a light? What are you, crazy?
-Well, what?
-Meet my assistant, Nastya.
-What do you have?
-We have everything set up.
-What’s set up?
-Everything is set up-- the trap.
The what?
-The trap.
-And you set it up, right?
-Yes.
-Good job.
Look around, Nastya. What do you think?
Honestly, it’s not really a trap.
Egorov, maybe can you put up flyers
around the station
so he can turn himself in.
-Maybe that’s easier.
-It isn’t?
-What’s wrong?
-These two are in a taxi.
-So what?
-Egorov.
Two guys are in a car. So what?
It’s for one person,
and there are two here.
-What the hell!
-Get out of here.
One of you get out.
-So this is what you’re doing here?
-He’s sitting. -Why isn’t he smoking?
-It’s a public place-- I get it.
Here you go, smoke.
Or remove him?
-You came up with this?
-I did.
-By yourself?
-By myself.
Great work.
Train 8 arrives at 2:16.
And why doesn’t he stink?
-What?
-He should reek. Of piss!
Yes-- Well, should he piss himself
or something? Pardon me.
What do you think, Egorov?
Lekh, Remove Genka.
Well, we need to get him ready.
I’ll explain later.
Understood. We’re going.
What? Wait. What?
The train will be here in three minutes.
THE SUNRISE
What a gentleman.
-My God.
-Go.
All right then, guys,
this is the situation.
Major Meglin couldn’t make it. He’s busy.
Our country is huge,
and there are many important cases.
So he sent his comrades.
Here we have…
Ovechkin.
Gennady Nikolaevich, forensic expert.
And… Elena Petrovna Matyukhina--
especially important.
She works hand in hand with Meglin,
so you understand…
In general, we need to use
all our strength and… catch this psycho.
Or he’ll continue with his black deeds,
and the press will smear us with shit.
Quiet.
Pardon me. Please.
We know who the killer is.
It’s… Kalugin Vyecheslav.
Fifty-seven years old, insane.
We’ll give you the summary.
You’re free to go. What was that?
What was that?
Do you like me?
-In general.
-In your dreams.
That was, at minimum,
completely unprofessional of you.
Yeah?
I just thought…
if your…
nipples got hard… he’d like you even more.
Who is “he”?
Why did you decide he’s a police officer?
What do you think?
He’s often on the road, and it explains
why he can easily approach the victim
and establish trust at a distance.
-Right?
-No. He loves power.
At some point, he was badly hurt,
but now he can kill whoever he wants.
Even witnesses don’t bother him.
No, he’s inside the system.
He’s got a good thing going.
He always attacks inside the park.
But it’s huge. What are we looking for?
We’re looking for someplace
where he likes to kill.
Someplace where something painful was done
to him, and now he’s the one doing it.
What do you see?
People, trees.
And you?
-He’s still young. He runs good.
-An athlete?
Right here! He stopped and looked around.
No one around, yeah? Grab her!
Come here, bitch! Come on!
Come on, come here!
No one will see you, right? Or hear you. But they can. People are walking by.
Come here, bitch!
Come here. Here! Don’t turn away.
You have to humiliate me here?
Quiet, bitch! All right. Now I’ll--
Samsonova Utkina.
Pershina Krestsova.
Who are they?
The ones who hurt him.
Girls.
Little girls.
He wasn’t running.
He was running away.
What?
Nothing.
INVESTIGATIVE COMMITTEE
MOSCOW
I told them a hundred times.
They don’t understand.
Do everything according to the plan
and don’t listen to anyone.
Sasha.
-Hello, Andrei Sergeyevich.
-Hello.
Something… There’s something I wanted…
Let’s walk.
A lot is changing
in Esenya’s life right now.
We-- Our task is to support her somehow
during this difficult time.
Don’t you agree?
Well-- I’d love to, except she doesn’t
want anything to do with me.
Be more persistent. Come see us anyways.
I’m inviting you.
Thanks. I’d love to.
If you ever want to discuss something,
I’ll always listen.
I need to be in the loop
about what’s going on with her.
See you.
Well, if you must, then of course look.
I just don’t understand what our school
has to do with this serial killer.
Tsipunin. Zinaida Mikhailovna!
-Look at this.
-Simakin. What is this? Again?
Never again. Go.
The class record books, if I may.
As you wish.
ARCHIVES
KIRA PERSHINA
PERSHINA
UTKINA
OLGA UTKINA
They’re here.
ARTAMONOV
They graduated around ’98. He’s about 30.
My list has the same names
that are scratched in the wall.
We’ll go over every name and check them.
We’ll go over every one.
Are we going to do anything else today?
Understood.
He really doesn’t feel sorry for anyone?
He only feels sorry for himself.
Then why are there such long breaks
between murders?
I thought it was something
like remorse or depression,
like after sex.
You’re depressed after sex?
That’s something to feel sorry about.
No remorse whatsoever. Absolutely none.
He’s just fine and wants to do it again.
Then he’s not a man but a monster.
When he’s not having an episode, he’s
a normal, nice guy-- like everyone else.
A family man maybe. He wears a tie.
All of us are part monster, part human.
Why can’t he stop then
if he’s such a good person otherwise?
He doesn’t want to stop.
Do you understand?
These people should be killed
not prosecuted. -Yes.
-Do you sit here all the time?
Take it.
-From 9:00 to 9:00.
-Got it.
Sit down. I’ll draw you.
I don’t have time.
It’ll only take a minute.
Or I’ll draw your daughter.
No, my daughter is going to get cognac.
Go on.
Over there. Go on.
A minute you said?
Marilyn Monroe! Let me kiss your knee.
-One second.
-What’s with you, man?
Guys, you don’t understand.
I’m not touching anyone.
I’m just walking here.
What do you want?
You guys don’t understand!
Come on, throw him in!
There you go!
What are you-- idiots!
Are you alive? Are you alive?
-I’m alive.
-Have you lost your mind?
I drank too much.
THE SUNRISE
ATTENTION! WANTED
-Go on! Try me!
-What are you-- an idiot?
You’ve completely lost your mind
over this psycho!
What are you drawing?
JACKASS
There’s one doctor I know
who specifically asks his patients
to draw everything that comes to mind.
He thinks
you can understand them that way.
DON’T BE ANGRY
You look wonderful. Here’s your change.
Thanks. It’s all because of the tie.
As soon as I put it on,
the beatings start.
-So take it off.
-I cant.
I look wonderful in it.
Yes. Yes, we’re going.
They found another body.
She was found this morning.
She was killed today
between five and seven o’clock
in the morning.
MEDICAL EXAMINER’S OFFICE
MORGUE No. 2
-Do you see how they’re staring?
-Let them stare.
They don’t know how to bury the dead,
and they won’t save the living.
-I heard you enjoyed yourselves yesterday.
-From who?
Seryoga saw you yesterday. At the park.
We were working too.
Your serial killer…
is on this list of 30 names.
They went to school together.
-How’d you find that out?
-How do you think?
It’s a breakthrough, Major. She’s asking.
Grish Belykh.
Run a background search
on these classmates.
Will do. Wait for me here.
-What about me?
-I’ll be right back.
Am I bothering you? Sorry.
Sergei Mokrushin.
Hello. What are you doing here.
Patrolling.
-Well, I saw you and decided--
-You decided what?
To approach you.
-But if I’m bothering you--
-You aren’t bothering me.
How--
How do you like the city?
It’s nice.
It’s a pity the reason for the trip is so…
It’s not a big deal.
It’ll all be over soon.
Why do you think that?
Well… you’re here.
Why are you looking at me like that?
Sergei,
why did you decide to join the police?
Well…
I ran track.
And then I needed an apartment.
And they gave me one.
-What else do you think you’ll do?
-I don’t know.
I’ll get married.
How about I read your palm?
-How?
-I’ll tell you the name of your wife.
So…
How should I know he had an alibi.
Asking wasn’t in the cards?
Where were you?
You completely abandoned me. -Well, is it bearable?
-Yes.
Come here.
-Check this out.
-What is it?
Not what, but who.
It’s the guy who stayed calm
while I was harassing those girls.
I asked the sketch artist to draw him
while they beat me.
Don’t you recognize him?
His face is familiar.
Too bad it was far away.
I couldn’t get any closer.
He’d have been spooked.
-Go comfort your boyfriend.
-Where are you going?
I’m going this way.
Hello. Hello.
Can we come in?
And who is “we?”
Come in.
What are we drinking to?
To getting to know each other.
Or to children?
Where’s your son?
-Who knows anymore?
-Well, you know.
Yeah.
First my wife got sick. She died.
Then he got sick…
from grief.
He became very ill.
In school, he was teased and bullied.
Faster! Faster!
Pick up the pace.
Run, loser.
-Run!
-Run faster, you wuss!
Catch your breath!
Idiot! Boo! You’re shit!
Hey! What’s going on here?
Boo! You’re shit!
He grew up nonetheless.
He became a strong person.
One last question.
-Do you know what he grew up to be?
-What would you have done?
What I’m going to do.
Actually,
your restless friend told me to tell you
he’s waiting for you in the park.
Hello, Elena Petrovna.
Are you out for a walk?
It’s late.
A serial killer is in the city
and you’re looking so nice.
Are you on the job?
Understood. You’re on the job.
What are you looking for?
Or did you already find it?
At school, he used his mother’s last name.
And when she died,
he took his father’s name.
So we didn’t find him on the list.
Meet Grigory Belykh.
The Lipetsk Strangler.
The sick, bullied child
who wanted little girls to love him,
right?
But the little girls didn’t love you.
They made fun of you, yeah? Beat you up?
They didn’t give you any, did they?
They’re wretches, not little girls, right?
Well, Grisha grew up,
and he joined the police.
He thought the girls would give it up
to a guy with a gun. Wrong again. Another failure, yeah?
They didn’t give you any.
You know better than I do.
What do you say?
When did you first realize
what you needed?
Did you detain someone?
A prostitute?
You started to strangle her
and immediately came, right?
Yes, your childhood was hard, Grisha.
But why all this?
Ten girls. Why?
You can’t live with this.
And now you won’t be able to.
You would’ve been the 11th.
No, Grish.
You didn’t score on the soccer team.
How about we stop at 10?
Go and choke.
You’re sure
that the strangler attacked Meglin
and he defended himself.
The wounds suggest otherwise.
I’m telling you what I saw.
We know what Meglin did.
I’d like to know
what you’re feeling right now.
Horror.
TOWN OF VASILKOVO
What?